README.md, before:

# check-my-pages

**check-my-pages** is a scrapping script to test the Spanish web archive (with more than 10,000 pages). It checks each url in a list and creates report files about what was tested. Each file reports about a specific issue and includes the scanned url together with the result.

Please note that the script was written to check for problems detected when manually inspecting a small sample (about 1%) of the Spanish website. This script was not built to be used as-it-is in other websites, you are supposed to modify it.

This script complements other scripts and command line tools like ack, grep, rpl and others.

## Download and install

### Install from source

If you have the Go compiler installed you can download and install go with:

```
go get github.com/greenpeace/check-my-pages

go install github.com/greenpeace/check-my-pages
```

## File with list of urls

The urls file, by default `urls.csv` must have all the urls you want to check. You can use a text file with 1 url per line or a csv file with the urls on the first column and without headers.

## Checking the urls

To check all urls in `urls.csv` with all the checks use the command:

```
./check-my-pages -urls=urls.csv -http -analytics -canonical -redirects -linkpattern -cssjspattern -mediapattern
```

This repository includes a few testing urls in the file `urls.csv`. Please replace them by your own.

It will create a couple of files, one per check the script is doing:
* `httpResponses.csv` - Stores the **http response** codes for the URL. 200 means everything is OK.
* `analytics.csv` - Reports **google analytics** tracking ID
* `canonicals.csv` - Reports the **canonical url** for every url
* `redirects.csv` - Reports the requested URL and the final URL. This will be useful to test the **redirects** in the main site.
* `linkpattern.csv` - Reports on links that include a regular expression pattern. Useful to track **links** to specific **dead sites**. The default pattern can be set by the `-pattern` option.
* `cssjspattern.csv` - Reports **css and js** urls that include a regular expression pattern. To detect dead css and js urls in large sites. The pattern can also be defined with the option `-pattern` (described bellow)
* `mediapattern.csv` - Reports **media** links. Images, videos, audios, iframes and objects. Also use `-pattern` to define the urls pattern.

## Optional command line configurations

`-miliseconds=100` - Sets a delay of 100 miliseconds between requests.

`-pattern='https?://(\w|-)+.greenpeace.org/espana/.+'` - Changes the search link pattern to the regular expression.

## Remove the report files

To remove the files created by **check-my-pages**:

```
./check-my-pages -clear 
```

Commit message:

How to download the binaries last version

README.md, after:

# check-my-pages

**check-my-pages** is a scrapping script to test the Spanish web archive (with more than 10,000 pages). It checks each url in a list and creates report files about what was tested. Each file reports about a specific issue and includes the scanned url together with the result.

Please note that the script was written to check for problems detected when manually inspecting a small sample (about 1%) of the Spanish website. This script was not built to be used as-it-is in other websites, you are supposed to modify it.

This **command line** script complements other command line tools like ack, grep, rpl and others.

## Download and install

### Install the last version

Go to the [releases page](https://github.com/greenpeace/check-my-pages/releases) and download the last version for your operating system: Windows, Mac and Linux 64bit.

### Install from source

If you have the Go compiler installed you can download and install go with:

```
go get github.com/greenpeace/check-my-pages

go install github.com/greenpeace/check-my-pages
```

## File with list of urls

The urls file, by default `urls.csv` must have all the urls you want to check. You can use a text file with 1 url per line or a csv file with the urls on the first column and without headers.

## Checking the urls

To check all urls in `urls.csv` with all the checks use the command:

```
./check-my-pages -urls=urls.csv -http -analytics -canonical -redirects -linkpattern -cssjspattern -mediapattern
```

This repository includes a few testing urls in the file `urls.csv`. Please replace them by your own.

It will create a couple of files, one per check the script is doing:
* `httpResponses.csv` - Stores the **http response** codes for the URL. 200 means everything is OK.
* `analytics.csv` - Reports **google analytics** tracking ID
* `canonicals.csv` - Reports the **canonical url** for every url
* `redirects.csv` - Reports the requested URL and the final URL. This will be useful to test the **redirects** in the main site.
* `linkpattern.csv` - Reports on links that include a regular expression pattern. Useful to track **links** to specific **dead sites**. The default pattern can be set by the `-pattern` option.
* `cssjspattern.csv` - Reports **css and js** urls that include a regular expression pattern. To detect dead css and js urls in large sites. The pattern can also be defined with the option `-pattern` (described bellow)
* `mediapattern.csv` - Reports **media** links. Images, videos, audios, iframes and objects. Also use `-pattern` to define the urls pattern.

## Optional command line configurations

`-miliseconds=100` - Sets a delay of 100 miliseconds between requests.

`-pattern='https?://(\w|-)+.greenpeace.org/espana/.+'` - Changes the search link pattern to the regular expression.

## Remove the report files

To remove the files created by **check-my-pages**:

```
./check-my-pages -clear 
```
